Why the community should welcome Average Jane and Joe
=====================================================
:type:       talk
:presented:  5/2/2012
:presenter:  Clarista:
:conference: FOSDEM 2012

Average Jane and Joe are not really technical and they don't care about open
source as passionately as us. Geeks have strange T-shirts, attitude or hobbies
and their are proud of it. It is difficult for non-internal people to
understand what we are talking about. So outsiders needs translators to get
inside and to understand how we are. If they understand what do we do, they can
cope with us being weird. Geeks like their solitude. But to get more
contributors, we need to get better image in the eyes of general public. And
once we get few average people, they can help us to lure in more.

How to get them?
----------------

Welcome them. Speak to them simply. Don't be too technical. Give them some
simple tasks they can do. They might feel confused and lost. Don't RTFM them.
New people might be friendlier and more friendly. Good selling point? Price!
FLOSS philosophy! Community! A lot of friends!

How can they help?
------------------

They can help with organization of events. They do a great job at stand. They
can help with localization. Localization is easy way to get in. With some
experience, they can also act as a support. They can also help to polish
manuals to be more understandable.

Q & A
-----

How to avoid misconceptions? Be aware of your appearance. Try to figure out the
most common misconceptions. And get prepared for them.

It might be a good idea to start slow with general public. Don't dive into
details of the philosophy. Lure them with attractive thing and catch them later
:-D

Why we are giving it away free? It is not that it is crappy. It is because we
are proud of it and we have high values and we believe in creating a better
world!

How to attract average Jane? Get first one, then use her to get others. Peek
out from the computer more often. And get a woman role models to attract more
woman users.
